doc/gh-pages/notation/filters.md, before:

---
title: Conditions & Filters
published: true
nav_order: 11
---

# Conditions & Filters

{: .story }
>**GM**: You are lucky. The potion saved your life, cured all your wounds and gaved you an extra boost of energy. As you get up, you realize that you are in a room filled with bags of golden coins.
>
>**Grindon**: The heart of the dungeon!
>
>**GM**: Yes. Before anyone appear and catch you, you grab as many bags you can in your arms.
>
>**Grindon**: Finally, all this time training in the woods will serve me well. I surely can hold 8 of those nice bags. Let's roll 8d20.
>
>**GM**: True but hold on. The bags are slippery. And small bags containing 4 coins or less may fall from your arms.
>
>**Grindon**: Okay, let's roll. Please dice, be kind.  [8d20>4]
>
>*GNOLL*: [{16, 1, 5, 8, 1, 9, 1, 13}]
>
>**GM**: You escape the dungeon with 3 bags of gold!
>
>**Grindon The Brave**: Not so fast, dear GM. I see lots of 1s here. It is time for my special class feature. I knew it would come handy.
>
> *GNOLL*: [{2, 4, 3}]
>
>**GM**: Lucky you! You were able to catch two more gold coins!
>
>**Grindon The Brave**: I'm rich! I'm rich!

# Filtering

In many games, certain logic is only required if a particular value is rolled. For example, the board game One Deck Dungeon  contains a scenario
that requires the player to discard any 2s rolled in their roll. Conditional statements allow a high range of flexibility for
cases such as these.

When applied to a vector of rolls, a conditional can act as a filter to remove rolls that do not satisfy the criteria.
Conditionals in GNOLL operations take the same form as one might find in typical programming languages.

| Symbol | Meaning      |
| ------ | ------------ |
|   ==   | Equal To     |
|   !=   | Not Equal To     |
|   <    | Less Than    |
|   >    | Greater Than |
|   <=   | Less Than OR Equal To     |
|   >=   | Greater Than OR Equal To     |

Filters use conditionals to remove dice rolls that do not match the conditional check. Equation 16 shows four dice
being rolled and then two of them discarded for not matching the filter criteria.

**Example:**

4𝑑6𝑓 < 3 = 𝑓𝑖𝑙𝑡𝑒𝑟({4,1,2,5}, ” < 3”) = {2,1}

## Combination with other operations

Filters can be powerful when combined with other operations. Such as rerolling when certain criteria are met.

*Under Construction. Examples to be added*

Commit message:

More complex version of the story with filter and re-roll.

doc/gh-pages/notation/filters.md, after:

---
title: Conditions & Filters
published: true
nav_order: 11
---

# Conditions & Filters

{: .story }
>**GM**: You are lucky. The potion saved your life, cured all your wounds and gaved you an extra boost of energy. As you get up, you realize that you are in a room filled with bags of golden coins.
>
>**Grindon**: The heart of the dungeon!
>
>**GM**: Yes. Before anyone appear and catch you, you grab as many bags you can in your arms.
>
>**Grindon**: Finally, all this time training in the woods will serve me well. I surely can hold 8 of those nice bags. Let's roll 8d20.
>
>**GM**: True but hold on. The bags are slippery. And small bags containing 4 coins or less may fall from your arms. Do [8d20f>4]
>
>*GNOLL*: [51]
>
>**GM**: You escape the dungeon with 51 gold coins!
>
>**Grindon The Brave**: Not so fast, dear GM. It is time for my special class feature. Who knows how many 1s there was in that throw? I knew it would come handy. [8d20r==1f>4]
>
>*GNOLL*: [52]
>
>**GM**: Lucky you! You were able to catch one more gold coin!
>
>**Grindon The Brave**: I'm rich! I'm rich!

# Filtering

In many games, certain logic is only required if a particular value is rolled. For example, the board game One Deck Dungeon  contains a scenario
that requires the player to discard any 2s rolled in their roll. Conditional statements allow a high range of flexibility for
cases such as these.

When applied to a vector of rolls, a conditional can act as a filter to remove rolls that do not satisfy the criteria.
Conditionals in GNOLL operations take the same form as one might find in typical programming languages.

| Symbol | Meaning      |
| ------ | ------------ |
|   ==   | Equal To     |
|   !=   | Not Equal To     |
|   <    | Less Than    |
|   >    | Greater Than |
|   <=   | Less Than OR Equal To     |
|   >=   | Greater Than OR Equal To     |

Filters use conditionals to remove dice rolls that do not match the conditional check. Equation 16 shows four dice
being rolled and then two of them discarded for not matching the filter criteria.

**Example:**

4𝑑6𝑓 < 3 = 𝑓𝑖𝑙𝑡𝑒𝑟({4,1,2,5}, ” < 3”) = {2,1}

## Combination with other operations

Filters can be powerful when combined with other operations. Such as rerolling when certain criteria are met.

*Under Construction. Examples to be added*
